---
title: Scrum
description: scrum,requirements,software,development
---

**Scrum** is a process framework for building products.
The Scrum framework consists in components, such as: roles, events, artifacts, and rules.
The rules of Scrum bind together the events, roles, and artifacts, managing the relationships
and interaction between them.

## Characteristics
Scrum employs an iterative, incremental approach to optimize predictability and control risk.

### Transparent
Scrum users should be on the same page.

### Iterative
Each of iteration must provide a working slice of the product.

### Adaptive
Adjustments must be made as soon as possible to minimize further deviation.

## The Scrum Team
The Scrum Team consists of a Product Owner (PO), the Development Team, and a Scrum Master (SM).


### Product Owner (PO)
The Scrum product owner is typically a project's key stakeholder.
Part of the product owner responsibilities is to have a vision of what he/she wishes to build,
 and convey that vision to the scrum team.

### Development Team
The Development Team creates and provide the Increment of the product.
Recommended size of the Development Team is not bigger then 9 people, because
it would be hard to organize and coordinate a work.

### Scrum Master (SM)
The Scrum Master is responsible for following Scrum and ensuring that all members of the Scrum Team
understand process and flows.

## Scrum Events
### The Sprint
Sprint is a time-box of one month or less, mostly 2-3 weeks. As a result of the Sprint
should be useable and potentially releasable Increment of a product. After end of one
Sprint next Sprint is started immediately.

### Sprint Planning
At Sprint Planning entire Scrum Team is planning work for the Sprint. It is time-box
event to a maximum of two-four hours for one two weeks Sprint. On the Planning
Team decides what can be delivered in upcoming Iteration and how to deliver this work.

### Daily Scrum
The Daily Scrum is a 15-minute time-boxed event every working day for the Development Team.
In this event team members must avoid technical details and avoid discussions.
The daily scrum meeting is not used as a problem-solving or issue resolution meeting.
By focusing on what each person accomplished yesterday and will accomplish today,
the team gains an excellent understanding of what work has been done and what work remains.

### Sprint Review
During Sprint Review, the Scrum Team and stakeholders collaborate about
what was done in the Spring, and what would be in Iteration.
During this meeting, the Scrum team shows what they accomplished during the sprint.
Typically this takes the form of a demo of the new features.

### Sprint Retrospective
The Spring Retrospective is a meeting there Scrum Team looks for ways
how current process can be improved.
Using this approach each team member is asked to identify specific things that the team should:
* Start doing
* Stop doing
* Continue doing

## Scrum Artifacts
Scrum’s artifacts represent work or value to provide transparency and opportunities
for inspection and adaptation. Artifacts defined by Scrum are specifically
designed to maximize transparency of key information so that everybody has
the same understanding of the artifact.

### Product Backlog
The Product Backlog is an ordered list of everything that is known to be needed in the product.
It is the single source of requirements for any changes to be made to the product.
The Product Owner is responsible for the Product Backlog, including its content, availability, and ordering.

### Sprint Backlog
The Sprint Backlog is the set of Product Backlog items selected for the Sprint.
It is a plan for delivering the product Iteration and realizing the Scrum Goal.
Sprint Backlog belongs solely to the Development Team and only Team can change it during the Sprint.
Spring Backlog is a high-visible and real-time picture of the Team work.

### Increment
The Increment is the sum of all the Product Backlog items completed during
a Sprint and the value of the increments of all previous Sprints. All items must meet the
Scrum Team's "Definition of Done".

## Definition of "Done" (DoD)
Definition of Done is a list of activities (writing code, coding comments, unit testing, integration testing, release notes, design documents, etc.)
that add verifiable/demonstrable value to the product.
When a Product Backlog item or an Increment is described as "Done", everyone must understand what "Done" means.

In reality, many teams are still working towards a potentially shippable state.  Such teams may have a different DoD at various levels:

* Definition of Done for a feature (story or product backlog item)
* Definition of Done for a sprint (collection of features developed within a sprint)
* Definition of Done for a release (potentially shippable state)

## Definition of "Ready" (DoR)
A checklist of conditions that must be true before a product backlog item is considered ready to pull into a sprint during sprint planning.
In practice, can be applicable for ready to pull for testing.

## Velocity
Velocity is a measure of the amount of work a Team can take during a single
Sprint. Velocity is calculated at the end of the Sprint
by totaling the Points for all fully completed User Stories.
Velocity is a empirical observation of previously completed sprints.


## Capacity
Capacity is how much availability the team has for the sprint. This may
vary based on team members being on vacation, ill, etc. The team should consider
capacity in determining how many product backlog items to plan for a sprint.
Capacity is based on the team's expected or projected future availability.

---






